# Go API client for dns

## Working with the API
Every endpoint uses the `X-API-Key` header for authorization, to obtain the key please see the [Official Documentation](/docs/getstarted).

Please note that any zone or record updates might conflict with active services. In such cases, the DNS records belonging to the conflicting services will be deactivated.

## Support
Support questions may be posted in English: <a href='/docs/getstarted#support'>API Beta Support</a>.

Please note that in the Beta phase we offer support in the business Hours Mo-Fri 9:00-17:00 EET.
<h2>
<details>
  <summary>Release notes</summary>

  Vesion 1.0.0
  Exposed CRUD operations for customer zone.
</details>
</h2>


## Overview
This API client was generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project.  By using the [OpenAPI-spec](https://www.openapis.org/) from a remote server, you can easily generate an API client.

- API version: 1.0.0
- Package version: 1.0.0
- Build package: org.openapitools.codegen.languages.GoClientCodegen
For more information, please visit [/docs/getstarted#support](/docs/getstarted#support)

## Installation

Install the following dependencies:

```shell
go get github.com/stretchr/testify/assert
go get golang.org/x/oauth2
go get golang.org/x/net/context
```

Put the package under your project folder and add the following in import:

```golang
import dns "github.com/ionos-developer/dns-sdk-go"
```

To use a proxy, set the environment variable `HTTP_PROXY`:

```golang
os.Setenv("HTTP_PROXY", "http://proxy_name:proxy_port")
```

## Configuration of Server URL

Default configuration comes with `Servers` field that contains server objects as defined in the OpenAPI specification.

### Select Server Configuration

For using other server than the one defined on index 0 set context value `sw.ContextServerIndex` of type `int`.

```golang
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), dns.ContextServerIndex, 1)
```

### Templated Server URL

Templated server URL is formatted using default variables from configuration or from context value `sw.ContextServerVariables` of type `map[string]string`.

```golang
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), dns.ContextServerVariables, map[string]string{
	"basePath": "v2",
})
```

Note, enum values are always validated and all unused variables are silently ignored.

### URLs Configuration per Operation

Each operation can use different server URL defined using `OperationServers` map in the `Configuration`.
An operation is uniquely identified by `"{classname}Service.{nickname}"` string.
Similar rules for overriding default operation server index and variables applies by using `sw.ContextOperationServerIndices` and `sw.ContextOperationServerVariables` context maps.

```
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), dns.ContextOperationServerIndices, map[string]int{
	"{classname}Service.{nickname}": 2,
})
ctx = context.WithValue(context.Background(), dns.ContextOperationServerVariables, map[string]map[string]string{
	"{classname}Service.{nickname}": {
		"port": "8443",
	},
})
```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *https://api.hosting.ionos.com/dns*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*DynamicDNSApi* | [**ActivateDynDns**](docs/DynamicDNSApi.md#activatedyndns) | **Post** /v1/dyndns | 
*DynamicDNSApi* | [**DeleteDynDns**](docs/DynamicDNSApi.md#deletedyndns) | **Delete** /v1/dyndns/{bulkId} | 
*DynamicDNSApi* | [**DisableDynDns**](docs/DynamicDNSApi.md#disabledyndns) | **Delete** /v1/dyndns | 
*DynamicDNSApi* | [**UpdateDynDns**](docs/DynamicDNSApi.md#updatedyndns) | **Put** /v1/dyndns/{bulkId} | 
*RecordsApi* | [**CreateRecords**](docs/RecordsApi.md#createrecords) | **Post** /v1/zones/{zoneId}/records | 
*RecordsApi* | [**DeleteRecord**](docs/RecordsApi.md#deleterecord) | **Delete** /v1/zones/{zoneId}/records/{recordId} | 
*RecordsApi* | [**GetRecord**](docs/RecordsApi.md#getrecord) | **Get** /v1/zones/{zoneId}/records/{recordId} | 
*RecordsApi* | [**UpdateRecord**](docs/RecordsApi.md#updaterecord) | **Put** /v1/zones/{zoneId}/records/{recordId} | 
*ZonesApi* | [**GetZone**](docs/ZonesApi.md#getzone) | **Get** /v1/zones/{zoneId} | 
*ZonesApi* | [**GetZones**](docs/ZonesApi.md#getzones) | **Get** /v1/zones | 
*ZonesApi* | [**PatchZone**](docs/ZonesApi.md#patchzone) | **Patch** /v1/zones/{zoneId} | 
*ZonesApi* | [**UpdateZone**](docs/ZonesApi.md#updatezone) | **Put** /v1/zones/{zoneId} | 


## Documentation For Models

 - [CustomerZone](docs/CustomerZone.md)
 - [DynDnsRequest](docs/DynDnsRequest.md)
 - [DynamicDns](docs/DynamicDns.md)
 - [ModelError](docs/ModelError.md)
 - [Record](docs/Record.md)
 - [RecordResponse](docs/RecordResponse.md)
 - [RecordTypes](docs/RecordTypes.md)
 - [RecordUpdate](docs/RecordUpdate.md)
 - [Zone](docs/Zone.md)
 - [ZoneTypes](docs/ZoneTypes.md)


## Documentation For Authorization



### ApiKeyAuth

- **Type**: API key
- **API key parameter name**: X-API-Key
- **Location**: HTTP header

Note, each API key must be added to a map of `map[string]APIKey` where the key is: X-API-Key and passed in as the auth context for each request.


## Documentation for Utility Methods

Due to the fact that model structure members are all pointers, this package contains
a number of utility functions to easily obtain pointers to values of basic types.
Each of these functions takes a value of the given basic type and returns a pointer to it:

* `PtrBool`
* `PtrInt`
* `PtrInt32`
* `PtrInt64`
* `PtrFloat`
* `PtrFloat32`
* `PtrFloat64`
* `PtrString`
* `PtrTime`

## Author



